.\"(c) Copyright 2003-2010 by Brian Smith
.\"All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH CMCONVERT 1 "12 May 2010"
.SH NAME
cmconvert \- CacheMate waypoint file converter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cmconvert
[-a] [-A] [-b] [-B] [-C] [-D] [-f] [-F] [-h] [-H] [-l] [-L]
[-N max_log_count] [-o output_file] [-O] [-q] [-s] [-S] [-t] [-T] [-v] 
[--owner=owner_name] [--country=country] [--state=state] 
[--cont=container] [--sym=symbol] [--type=cache_type]
[--excl=waypoint_list] [--radius=distance,lat,lon]
[--radius=distance,waypoint] [--filter=filter_file]
input_file1[,input_file2...] [waypoint ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cmconvert
is a file converter, which takes one or more EasyGPS LOC or GPX XML files 
as input and outputs a Palm database file that CacheMate (a geocaching 
database for Palm OS) can import.  GPX file extensions specific to 
Geocaching.com, Geocaching.com.au and TerraCaching.com are converted as 
well.  These extensions are referred to as "site-specific" features 
throughout this document.
.LP
Selection of waypoints to convert (and later import) is possible by
specifying the waypoint names on the command line after the input file.  
Waypoints contained in the input file may also be listed along with
descriptive information.  Selection by certain criteria is also possible,
using the filtering options documented below.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-B
Includes travel bug names from Geocaching.com GPX files in the description 
field.
.TP
.B \-C
Includes container type/size from site-specific GPX files in the
description field.
.TP
.B \-D
Includes date information from GPX files in the description field, if 
available.
.TP
.B \-h
Generates an HTML file, name based on the output PDB file name, which
contains URLs for any links and images found in HTML descriptions for
records that are converted.  The file will contain links to the cache page
and any contained links for caches that have them (plain text descriptions
and HTML descriptions that are just text are omitted).
.TP
.B \-H
Prevents the encoding of hint text from site-specific GPX files.
.TP
.B \-l
Lists waypoints names from input file, along with description, terrain and
difficulty information if available.  If any filters are in place or
waypoint names are specified, only those that are selected will be listed.
.TP
.B \-L
Includes cache location (state/province and/or country) from site-specific 
GPX files in the description field.
.TP
.BI \-N " max_log_count"
If specified with a count of at least 1, cache logs from a site-specific
GPX file will be imported, until one of three per-cache limits is reached:
specified log count, number of logs in the record, or 8k of log
information.  Each log entry is trimmed to 3k in size, if it is larger
than that.
.TP
.BI \-o " output_file"
Specifies the file to which \fBcmconvert\fP writes the resulting Palm
database file.  The default name is based on the first input file name, 
with a
.I .pdb
extension.
.TP
.B \-O
Includes cache owner from site-specific GPX files in the description 
field.
.TP
.B \-q
Suppresses all output except error messages.
.TP
.B \-s
Causes the parser to semi-intelligently strip quotes from cache names.
.TP
.B \-S
Includes cache status (active/inactive) from site-specific GPX files in 
description field.
.TP
.B \-t
Adds items taken/left template to log notes field for each converted 
record.
.TP
.B \-T
Force old (pre-1.8.3) method of dealing with duplicate records (see 
below).
.TP
.B \-v
Displays version and copyright notice.
.SH DUPLICATE RECORD RESOLUTION
Versions of CMConvert older than 1.8.3 compared entire converted records 
to determine whether or not records from different input files were 
duplicates of each other.  If there were differences in records with 
identical waypoint names, both records would be included and would then 
appear to be duplicates.
.LP
The current behavior is to use file timestamps and compare waypoint names
between old and new records.  If a match is found, the old record will be
updated if the new record comes from a file with a later timestamp.  If an
input file is in GPX format and contains a file-level timestamp, that will
be used.  Otherwise, the last-modified time of the file is used.
.SH FILTERING OPTIONS
The following options may be used to select waypoints for conversion based 
on certain critera.  Most of the options only apply if supported 
site-specific information is in the GPX file being converted, and may 
otherwise result in no waypoints being converted.
.LP
Filters that use an argument, except for radius filters, do a
case-insensitive search of the corresponding field for a match, to make
them forgiving of incorrect case and allow for partial search strings.  
For example, a cache type filter of "event" will match the text "Event
Cache" from the GPX file.  Multiple search strings are also possible, when
separated by colons (:).  Specifying one of these options more than once
will add strings to that filter, instead of replacing it.
.LP
All filtering options, including waypoints specified on the command line,
are additive in their effects.  For example, a search combining the
"found" and "not found" filters on a Geocaching.com pocket query will
result in no records being converted.
.TP
.B \-a
Selects only caches that are active, according to site-specific 
information in the GPX files.  If this information is not present in the 
input file (as with LOC files), the cache is assumed to be active.
.TP
.B \-A
Selects only caches that are inactive, using the same criteria as the -a 
filter option.
.TP
.B \-b
Selects only caches that have travel bugs.
.TP
.B \-f
Selects only caches that have been found (symbol name = "Geocache Found").
.TP
.B \-F
Selects only caches that have not been found (symbol name = "Geocache").
.TP
.BI \--cont= container_type
Filters caches based on container type (regular, micro, etc.).
.TP
.BI \--country= country
Filters caches based on the country where they are located.
.TP
.BI \--state= state
Filters caches based on the state or province where they are located.
.TP
.BI \--owner= owner_name
Filters caches based on the owner's name.
.TP
.BI \--type= type_name
Filters caches based on cache type (traditional, event, virtual, etc.).
.TP
.BI \--sym= symbol_name
Filters waypoints based on symbol name.
.TP
.BI \--radius= distance,lat,lon
Filters waypoints based on distance from a certain set of coordinates.  
Distance is a number of kilometers (n.nnK, n.nnKM), statute miles (n.nnMI)  
or nautical miles (n.nnM, n.nnNM).  If no unit is specified, nautical
miles are assumed by default.  The latitude and longitude are expressed as
decimal degrees.
.TP
.BI \--radius= distance,waypoint
Filters waypoints based on distance from a given waypoint.  Distance is 
expressed in the same way as the more explicit radius filter.
.TP
.BI \--excl= waypoint_list
Allows an exclusion filter on waypoint names.
.TP
.BI \--filter= filter_file
Specifies a file from which to read name/value pairs, in the format
\fBname=value\fP, which correspond to any of the string/radius filter
types.  The options in the filter file will be applied as if they were
expanded into command-line arguments where this option is specified.
.SH TERRACACHING.COM SUPPORT
Most fields in GPX files from TerraCaching.com are mapped to their 
equivalent CacheMate fields, which are based on those used by 
Geocaching.com.  Some that may not be so obvious are:
.LP
.RS +4
Mental challenge -> Difficulty
.RE
.RS +4
Physical challenge -> Terrain
.RE
.LP
The "camo challenge" rating is prepended to the description text, if 
present.
.SH EXAMPLES
The following are various examples of cmconvert with different filtering 
options.
.LP
To list all of the caches that you haven't found, that contain travel bugs 
and are owned by bartacus or honeychile, you might do the following:
.LP
.RS +4
cmconvert -lFb --owner=honeychile:bartacus caches.gpx
.RE
.LP
To list all caches located within 5 miles of the coordinates N36/W80, you 
would enter:
.LP
.RS +4
cmconvert -l --radius=5M,36,-80 caches.gpx
.RE
.LP
A simpler example, this command would list all of the micro caches in the
input file:
.LP
.RS +4
cmconvert -l --cont=micro caches.gpx
.RE
.LP
This command converts the caches listed above into a PDB file
(caches.pdb) to import into CacheMate:
.LP
.RS +4
cmconvert --cont=micro caches.gpx
.RE
.LP
The following commands merges two GPX files into a single import file 
(caches.pdb):
.LP
.RS +4
cmconvert caches.gpx,benchmarks.gpx
.RE
.SH UNRESTRICTIONS
\fIcmconvert\fP is free; anyone may redistribute copies of it to anyone
under the terms stated in the GNU General Public License, a copy of which
accompanies each copy of \fIcmconvert\fP.
.SH AUTHOR
Brian Smith <brian@smittyware.com>
